"We discover that God is the natural nature, and then everything is that all the subject or the
subject of mind is become compounded.
Compounded is changeable mind, and also the subject of the mind is compounded as mind.
That means mind is compounded, mind and rigpa has a difference in Dzogchen teaching as you all know
, you heard many times, I mean I heard you, we all heard that.
What that means, mind is changeable, mind is not reliable, today we can think something and
tomorrow we can think something else.
The same thing, that means it's changing, it's not permanent, it's not, it's compounded, unreliable
, but rigpa never changes.
Rigpa is refined, the ordinary nature of the mind, as Grand Master said here, you've seen the
ordinary nature of the mind, that stays all the time.
So when you see that the wisdom, when you, if you interpreted that all in the wisdom as mind, then
it's compounded.
And also when you interpret it or when you think that emptiness is just blank, empty, empty. So the
component mind perceiving the blank emptiness is not the true will, that is not the true
understanding of the meaning.
That is what the Grand Master pointed out. And also the great blissfulness is not the blissfulness
that developed through the sensations.
But it's the blissfulness of all in the natural quality. That is, but if you start or if we
interpret the blissfulness as like sensation combinations, sense combination, then it is changing,
it's going to change, it's not.
And similarly, after the nature we think clarity is just like clarity as light or as like kind of
clear, that in all those are the dramas and levels of constructions, it is not nature.
Nature, it is just nominated by the consumption. Therefore, whoever thinks that way, the nature is
like that way, they are not even close to the true nature.
It is. For that reason, therefore, you have to be contact with qualified teachers and receive the
parent instructions from the qualified teacher,
that which is only transmitted as all transmission continue, that. And without that, the kind of
dry, intellectual analyzation cannot reach the true nature or behold.
True nature, same as like the bone with the blank person, cannot behold the poor clarity of the sun
.
Therefore, this is.